Data pipeline SQL on-premise to Data Lake

Step1- Setting Up the Azure Environment

1-	Create a Resource Group

1-1-	Log in to Azure Portal: Go to portal.azure.com and sign in.
1-2- Create a Resource Group:
o	In the Azure portal, search for Resource Group in the search bar.
o	Click Create.
o	Fill in the details:
	Subscription: Select your subscription.
	Resource Group Name: xxxx-RG.
	Region: Choose the closest region.
o	Click Review + Create and then Create.


2-	Create a Storage Account (Azure Data Lake)

2-1-	Search for Storage Account:
o	In the Azure portal, search for Storage Account.
o	Click Create.
Fill in the Details:
o	Subscription: Select your subscription.
o	Resource Group: Select the resource group you created (e.g., Xxxx-RG).
o	Storage Account Name: e.g., Xxxx-SG.
o	Region: Choose the same region as your resource group.
o	Enable Hierarchical Namespace: Check this box to enable Data Lake capabilities.
o	Click Review + Create and then Create.
Create Containers:
o	Once the storage account is created, go to the storage account.
o	Under Containers, create the container for raw data.

3-	Create a Key Vault

1.	Search for Key Vault:
o	In the Azure portal, search for Key Vault.
o	Click Create.
2.	Fill in the Details:
o	Subscription: Select your subscription.
o	Resource Group: Select the resource group you created (Xxxx-RG).
o	Key Vault Name:  Xxxx-KeyVault.
o	Region: Choose the same region as your resource group.
o	Pricing Tier: Standard.
o	Click Review + Create and then Create.

4-	 Create Azure Data Factory

1.	Search for Data Factory:
o	In the Azure portal, search for Data Factory.
o	Click Create.
2.	Fill in the Details:
o	Subscription: Select your subscription.
o	Resource Group: Select the resource group you created (e.g., Xxxx-RG).
o	Name: e.g., Xxxx-DF.
o	Region: Choose the same region as your resource group.
o	Version: Leave as default.
o	Click Review + Create and then Create.

Step 2: Setting Up SQL Server and Database
1-	Install SQL Server and SSMS
Download SQL Server Express:
o	Go to the SQL Server download page and download SQL Server Express.
o	Install SQL Server Express on your local machine.
Download SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS):
o	Download and install SSMS from the official Microsoft page.
Load the AdventureWorks Database:
o	Download the AdventureWorks sample database from the Microsoft website.
2.	Restore the Database:
o	Open SSMS and connect to your SQL Server instance.
o	Right-click on Databases and select Restore Database.
o	Choose Device and browse to the .bak file you downloaded.
o	Restore the database.
2-	Create a SQL User for Data Factory
1.	Create a SQL Login:
o	Open SSMS and connect to your SQL Server instance.
o	Run the following SQL query to create a login and user:
CREATE LOGIN username WITH password = '??????';
CREATE USER username FOR LOGIN username;
2.	Grant Permissions:
o	Grant the user access to the AdventureWorks database:
USE AdventureWorksDW2019;
GRANT SELECT ON SCHEMA::dbo TO username;



